Tuesday 12.6.22

Logged into Codecademy and while I'm still on the same career path, the ordering of my lessons changed. 

I still have my progress logged in the Javascript module. But it now wants me to start at the first module
Which makes sense 
Java is the second module. and I actually found it weird where I was starting but didn't question. 

Anyway, it seems like i'm backtracking a bit but no biggy. 


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Welcome to the Full-Stack Engineer Path



The internet and Web Development


Overview of the Internet

4 billion on the web 
2 billion websites 
Internet started as ARPANET - network connecting government/university supercomputers
1969 ARPANET connected supercomputing centers run by government agencies and universities.
They created TCP/IP Internet Protocol 
As different networks adopted TCP/IP, the interconnected global network of networks that is today known as the internet was formed.

Internet was at first just computers sending messages to each other
Engagement with the internet changed in 1989 when Tim Berners-Lee invented the world wide web
The world wide web is a collection of interlinked websites and other web resources
The world wide web, in combination with the rise of web browsers in the 1990s, introduced a user-friendly interface that enabled users to browse multimedia content and interact with other users.

The invention of the world wide web led to the use of the internet in wider society through the 1990s
Websites that are still in use today 





BROWSERS AND SERVERS 

Client Server Model 
-- Client is users device/program making request for data 
-- Server is device/program that recieves and sends back data. 
-- Server can be in-house, rented, at data center, or cloud server

HTTP status codes
When a server responds to a client, the server specifies a status code as part of the response
Status codes indicate whether of not the HTTP request was successfully completed 
- if there was an error, they contain info about the type of error
The status code helps the browser know how to handle the data that was sent back with the response

404 / Not Found
The requested resource was not found 

500 / Internal Server Error 
The server encountered an expected error

301 / Moved Permanently  
The resource has been moved and the client is being redirected

200 / OK
The request has succeeded

Most of the time multiple requests are being made
Like when using a webpage 

User types in URL and hits enter 
(all in a split second)
Server processes the request and sends HTML file back to client
HTML Files hold the content of a website 
Also contain links for additional assets or code needed to display site properly 
Browser begins to search for elements in HTML file 
It will start to make additional HTTP requests for other external resources used by HTML file

This often includes...

One ore more CSS Stylesheets
- Cascading style sheets
- Creates the style and layoud of a webpage 
- Browser will request CSS stylesheet 
- Server sends back and browser analyzes the CSS and applies visual styles to the content of the site

The request-response cycle also sends website assets like images and vides from server to browser
- If files are large, there will be delay before they are rendered by the browswer

One or more JavaScript files. JS makes the webpage interactive
- Functions as the behavior of the webpage
- Site that doesn't use JS is 'static' webpage 

user can now interact with the website that they requested to see.















